GB-IE - 37018B

GB-IE - 37018B

R
e
o
P
r
o
®

R
e
o
P
r
o
®

What is an angioplasty operation?
An angioplasty operation aims to open 
blocked arteries around the heart. A doctor will 
carefully guide a special instrument through an 
artery (which is usually in the groin) to reduce 
or remove the blockage.
There are three types of angioplasty 
operations where ReoPro can be used:
• Using an inﬂ atable balloon to compress an 
artery blockage (balloon angioplasty)
• Using a cutting device to open a blocked 
artery (atherectomy)
• Inserting an expandable metal sheath to 
keep an artery open (stent)

2. What you need to know before 

you are given ReoPro

Do not use ReoPro
Your doctor will review your medical history to 
see if you are at an increased risk for any side 
eﬀ ects associated with being given ReoPro.
To prevent risks of increased bleeding ReoPro 
must not be given:
• if you have internal bleeding
• if you have had a stroke within the last two 
years
• if you have had any head, spinal surgery 
(or trauma) or other major surgery in the last 
two months
• if you have brain cancer
• if you have serious bleeding problems or 
have very low amounts of platelets in your 
blood
• if you have uncontrolled high blood pressure
• if you have an abnormal bulge in one of your 
blood vessels (aneurysm)
• if you have serious problems with your liver
• if you are on dialysis for kidney failure
ReoPro must not be given if you are allergic 
(hypersensitive):
• to abciximab, to any of the other ingredients 
of ReoPro or to a group of medicines known 
as ‘murine monoclonal antibodies’.
• to a protein called papain (or to papaya fruit 
which contains papain). Papain is used in 
the production of ReoPro and very small 
amounts may be present.
If you think that you ﬁ t into any of 
the categories described above, it is important 
that you discuss it with your doctor. ReoPro 
must not be given in these situations.
Warnings and precautions
Talk to your doctor before using ReoPro
• if you are taking blood-thinning medicines or 
any other medicines that aﬀ ect blood clotting 
or blood platelets (see “Using other 
medicines” section).

• if you have previously received ReoPro, 
since this could be associated with higher 
risk of reduction in blood platelets or allergic 
reactions (hypersensitivity).
• if you have serious problems with your 
kidneys, since this may put you at risk of 
increased bleeding. In this case, your doctor 
might monitor your blood frequently.
• if you are more than 65 years of age (see 
“Adults over 65 years of age” section).
If you think that you ﬁ t into any of the 
categories described above, it is important 
that you discuss it with your doctor.
Adults over 65 years of age
In patients who are over 65 years of age, 
ReoPro should be given with caution, because 
of risks of increased bleeding.
Other medicines and ReoPro
Tell your doctor if you have been given blood-
thinning medicines, or any other medicines 
that aﬀ ect blood clotting (‘anticoagulants’) or 
blood platelets (‘anti-platelet medicines’). It is 
particularly important that you tell your doctor 
if ‘thrombolytic’ medicines have been given to 
unblock your arteries. Being given ReoPro 
together with these medicines may put you at 
risk of increased bleeding.
Tell your doctor if you are taking, have recently 
taken  or might take any other medicines.
Pregnancy and breast-feeding
ReoPro should not be given during pregnancy 
unless clearly necessary, since the eﬀ ect of 
ReoPro on pregnant women or unborn 
children is not known.
Breast-feeding must be stopped before being 
given ReoPro, since it is not known whether 
ReoPro is secreted in breast milk.

3. How to use ReoPro
Your nurse or doctor will inject ReoPro liquid 
from a syringe into one of your veins. This is 
known as a ‘bolus injection’.
After you have had the injection, your nurse, 
doctor or pharmacist will put more diluted 
ReoPro liquid into a bag which is connected by 
a tube to a needle which goes into one of your 
veins. This is known as a ‘drip’ or ‘infusion’.
Depending on your condition ReoPro will be 
given to you as follows:
• If you are about to undergo an angioplasty 
operation, your doctor will give you the bolus 
injection 10 to 60 minutes before the 
operation begins. After the bolus injection 
your doctor will start the infusion. 
The infusion will continue for 
12 hours after the 
operation is 
completed.

£

 Package leaﬂ et: Information for the user

ReoPro® 2 mg/mL solution 
for injection or infusion
abciximab

Read all of this leaﬂ et carefully 
before you start using this medicine 
because it contains important 
information for you.
-  Keep this leaﬂ et. You may need to read it 
again.
-  If you have further questions, ask your 
doctor.
-  If you get any of side eﬀ ects, talk to your 
doctor. This includes any possible side 
eﬀ ects not listed in this leaﬂ et. See section 4.
What is in this leaﬂ et
1. What ReoPro is and what it is used for
2. What you need to know before you are 
3. How to use ReoPro
4. Possible side eﬀ ects
5. How to store ReoPro
6. Contents of the pack and other 

given ReoPro

information

1. What ReoPro is and what it is 

used for

What ReoPro is?
The active ingredient, abciximab, is a ‘murine 
monoclonal antibody’. Monoclonal antibodies 
are proteins that recognise and bind to other 
unique proteins. ReoPro belongs to a group 
of medicines known as antithrombotics and 
binds to proteins in your blood to help to 
prevent blood clots.
What is ReoPro used for?
ReoPro is used when you undergo an 
operation known as angioplasty (see “What 
is an angioplasty operation?” below) for the 
following purposes:
• ReoPro is used (together with heparin and 
acetylsalicylic acid) to prevent the formation 
of blood clots in the heart during or after an 
angioplasty operation.
• ReoPro is also used (together with heparin 
and acetylsalicylic acid) to lower the short 
term risk of getting a heart attack before an 
angioplasty operation, which is planned to 
take place within the next 1-month. This is 
for patients who have chest pain due to low 
blood supply to the heart (unstable angina) 
and have not responded to the usual therapy.

The following informa tion is intended for 
healthcare professionals only:
Instructions for use and handling
1. Calculate the number of ReoPro vials 

needed. The recommended dose of ReoPro 
is a 0.25 mg/kg intravenous bolus 
immediately followed by a 0.125 μg/kg/min 
(to a maximum of 10 μg/min) continuous 
intravenous infusion.

2. Parenteral medicinal products should be 
inspected visually for particulate matter prior 
to administration. Preparations of ReoPro 
containing visibly opaque particles should 
NOT be used.

3. As with all parenteral medicinal products, 
aseptic procedures should be used during 
the administration of ReoPro.

4. Preparation of Bolus Injection: Withdraw the 
necessary amount of ReoPro for the bolus 
injection into a syringe. Filter the bolus 
injection using a sterile non-pyrogenic, low 
protein binding 0.2 / 0.22 μm or 5.0 μm 
syringe ﬁ lter. The bolus should be 
administered over one (1) minute.

5. Preparation of intravenous infusion: 

Withdraw the necessary amount of ReoPro 
for the continuous infusion into a syringe. 
Inject into an appropriate container of sterile 
sodium chloride 9 mg/ml (0.9%) solution for 
injection or 5% glucose solution and infuse 
at the calculated rate via a continuous 
infusion pump. The continuous infusion 
should be ﬁ ltered either upon admixture 
using a sterile, non-pyrogenic low protein 
binding 0.2 / 0.22 μm or 5.0 μm syringe ﬁ lter 
or upon administration using an in-line, 
sterile, non-pyrogenic, low protein-binding 
0.2 μm or 0.22 μm ﬁ lter. Discard the unused 
portion at the end of the infusion period.

6. No incompatibilities have been shown with 

intravenous infusion ﬂ uids or commonly 
used cardiovascular medicinal products. 
Nevertheless, it is recommended that 
ReoPro be administered in a separate 
intravenous line whenever possible and not 
mixed with other medicinal products.

7. No incompatibilities have been observed 

with glass bottles or polyvinyl chloride bags 
or administration sets.

8. Any unused medicinal product or waste 

material should be disposed of in 
accordance with local requirements.

• If you have unstable angina (chest pain due 
to low blood supply to the heart) and are 
scheduled for an angioplasty operation, 
your doctor will give you the bolus injection 
up to 24 hours before the scheduled 
operation. After the bolus injection your 
doctor will start the infusion. The infusion will 
continue for 12 hours after the operation is 
completed.
Dosage
Your doctor will calculate the dose of ReoPro 
to give to you as follows:
• The dose of the bolus injection will be based 
on your body weight. The dose is 
0.25 milligrams for every kilogram of your 
body weight.
• The infusion dose will also be based on your 
body weight. The dose is 0.125 micrograms 
per kilogram per minute up to a maximum of 
10 micrograms per minute.
After the operation
After the angioplasty operation your doctor or 
nurse will gently press a dressing on the artery 
to stop any bleeding. Total bed rest is required 
by the patient and the leg on which the 
angioplasty has been performed must be kept 
in a straight position for at least 6 to 8 hours. 
You will also be carefully observed by your 
doctor and nurse and your blood pressure and 
pulse will be measured several times. Regular 
blood tests will also be performed to monitor 
your blood cell count.

4. Possible side eﬀ ects
Like all  medicines, this medicine can cause 
side eﬀ ects, although not everybody gets 
them. Cases of fatal bleeding have been rarely 
reported.
Please t ell your doctor immediately if you 
notice any of the following side eﬀ ects, 
as your doctor will need to take immediate 
action and discontinue your treatment:
Common (aﬀ ecting less than 1 person in 10):
• Bleeding in the stomach or intestines. 
Symptoms may include vomiting blood, 
blood in faeces or black faeces.
Uncommon (aﬀ ecting less than 1 person in 100):
• Bleeding in the skull. Symptoms may include 
pain in the head; speech, visual or hearing 
diﬃ  culties; numbness or lack of feeling; 
problems with movement or balance.
• Rare (aﬀ ecting less than 1 person in 
1,000):Allergic reactions (including 
hypersensitivity and anaphylactic reactions). 
Symptoms may include skin rash; itchy and 
swollen skin; diﬃ  culty in breathing, dizziness.
• Build up of blood around the heart. Symptoms 
may include rapid heartbeat, chest pain, 
shortness of breath, sweating or fatigue.

• Serious restriction in breathing capacity. 
Symptoms may include shortness of breath, 
rapid and shallow breathing.
• Bleedings in the lungs. Symptoms may 
include coughing blood, wheezing, rapid 
breathing, airway obstruction.
Please also tell your doctor if you notice 
any of the following side eﬀ ects:
Common (aﬀ ecting less than 1 person in 10):
• Low blood platelet count. Symptoms may 
include easy or excessive bruising, bleeding 
under the skin, bleeding from nose or gums.
• Headache
• Slow heart rate
• Bleeding (may include bruising, purple skin 
rash, nose bleed, vaginal bleeding, blood in 
urine or faeces)
• Swelling of arms and legs
• Nausea or vomiting
• Back pain
• Chest pain
• Fever
• Pain at the injection site
• Pain in the abdomen
Rare (aﬀ ecting less than 1 person in 1,000):
• Very low blood pressure. Symptoms include 
dizziness or feeling faint.
Reporting of side eﬀ ects
If you get any side eﬀ ects, talk to your doctor, 
pharmacist or nurse. This includes any possible 
side eﬀ ects not listed in this leaﬂ et.
In the UK, you can also report side eﬀ ects 
directly via the Yellow Card Scheme at: 
www.mhra.gov.uk/yellowcard
In Ireland, you can also report side eﬀ ects 
directly via: HPRA Pharmacovigilance, Earlsfort 
Terrace, IRL - Dublin 2, Tel: +353 1 6764971, 
Fax: +353 1 6762517, Website: www.hpra.ie, 
E-mail: medsafety@hpra.ie
By reporting side eﬀ ects you can help provide 
more information on the safety of this medicine.

5. How to store ReoPro
Your doctor or other healthcare professionals 
will take care of handling and storing ReoPro 
according to the following instructions:
• Keep this medicine out of the reach and 
sight of children.
• Store in a refrigerator (2°C - 8°C).
• Do not freeze.
• Do not shake.
• Do not use this medicine after the expiry 
date which is stated on the carton and vial 
label after the letters EXP. The expiry date 
refers to the last day of that month.
• Do not use this medicine if you notice 
discolouring of the liquid or opaque particles 
in the liquid.

£

6. Contents of the pack and 

other information
What ReoPro contains
• ReoPro 2 mg/mL is supplied as a solution for 
injection or infusion containing 10 milligrams 
of abciximab (active ingredient) dissolved in 
5 millilitres of water for injection.
• The other ingredients are disodium 
phosphate dihydrate, sodium dihydrogen 
phosphate monohydrate, sodium chloride 
and polysorbate 80.
What ReoPro looks like and 
contents of the pack
• ReoPro 2 mg/mL pack contains a labelled 
glass vial ﬁ lled with colourless and clear 
ReoPro liquid.
Marketing Authorisation Holder and 
Manufacturer
Janssen Biologics B.V.
Einsteinweg 101
2333 CB Leiden
The Netherlands.
For any additional information about this 
medicine, please contact the local 
representative of the Marketing Authorisation 
Holder.
Janssen-Cilag Ltd.
50-100 Holmers Farm Way
High Wycombe
Buckinghamshire
HP12 4EG
UK
This leaﬂ et was last revised in 
September 2016.

© J-C 2016

